
			LokiHack '99 Patch

Patch Title: Multifractal Penguins and Porcupines
Author: Joshua Shagam
E-mail: joshagam@trikuare.cx

Short Description:  Mapgen, Splashscreen, Porcupines

Long Description:   
	One main hack and two mini-hacks.  The main hack is a complete
	rewrite of the map generation, giving it 1000 total discrete
	combinations of algorithms for terrain, vegetation, and climate,
	using yummy quasi-multifractals.  The first mini-hack is a new,
	better-looking splashscreen which replaces the "Linux port by Loki"
	screen.  The second mini-hack is the addition of a new civilization,
	which has a backstory behind it (read below for it).

Documentation:
	These patches are all simple drop-ins which require no additional
	user knowledge or interaction.  However, the porcupine civilization
	makes a little more sense if you read the backstory, which follows:
	(Note that this was written in an extreme case of sleep deprivation :)

		-=-=- Begin dramatic voiceover -=-=-

	Deep in the heart of the forest, there lived a colony of porcupines.
	These porcupines weren't just any porcupines, however... they had once
	been, aeons ago, super-intelligent porcupines, who had evolved and
	gone far beyond where humanity is today.  They had even developed
	nanotechnology, which allowed them to explore transcending the
	limitations of their flesh.  A favorite activity of theirs was to
	change their colors.  Over time the lines between their technology
	and themselves were blurred, and they slowly began to take it for
	granted, until one day when the nanorobots which helped them shape
	their world malfunctioned.  Before the nanorobots could wreak havoc
	upon an unspoiled world, the porcupines acted quickly to control the
	problem, and resolved to forget that their technology ever existed,
	doing whatever they could to return the world to the way it was.

	Over time, they did forget, and although they still thirst for
	knowledge of science and technology, all that physically remains of
	their previous technological splendor is their ability to, through 
	vestigal genetics installed by the nanorobots long ago, choose and 
	change the coloration of the pigments which are deposited into their
	fur, skin and quills.

	One rarely sees one of these porcupines directly, however.  They
	coexist happily with humans who have lived symbiotically for a long
	time, though they are the ruling class and are never seen, save for
	when one sends a diplomat (usually identified with lavender skin and
	fur and cyan quills) for negotiation purposes with other governments.
	They are otherwise happy to live in peaceful covertness.

		-=-=- End dramatic voiceover -=-=-
	
	Note that the mapgen patch will work perfectly-well with any other
	hack which happens, as it doesn't affect any of the main Civ:CTP code
	at all.  Likewise, the other patches will work just fine with
	everything else that can be thrown at them (since they're just data
	hacks), except that in the case of other civilizations being added in,
	the two gamedata files which are modified will have to be rolled
	together manually.  Incremental patches should work fine in that
	case, but care must be taken to update the number of civilizations
	at the top of default/gamedata/civilisation.txt.


Known Bugs:
	In certain circumstances, the map generator can cause the game to hang
	upon trying to start up, depending on what particular circumstances
	happen.  There is no way to avoid this, however, as the multifractals
	are based on statistical models, rather than deterministic procedural
	mechanisms, so sometimes, for example, it may generate a landscape
	which is too flat to have any real differentiation, which CTP's map
	tiling engine (which is separate from the mapgen) interprets as all
	water; thus, it can't find starting locations for the settlers, and
	the game hangs indefinitely.  The only recourse is to kill the process.

---
