README for Stealth Factor and Water Terraforming Patch

This patch for "Civilization: Call To Power" adds two
new features to the game:

1. Terraforming of the map now includes the option of
adding squares of shallow water to the map.

2. Units may now use terrain and their own ability to
sneak around on the map and sneak away from enemies.

1. Shallow Water Terraforming
-----------------------------

Under the "Terra" tab in the public works options (which
are seen when the hammer icon is clicked), there is now
an option to create squares of shallow water within the
area of control of one of the player's cities. The icon
for this option is blue, and is on the third row of
icons (you'll have to scroll the window to see it).The
water tiles created by the terraforming are considered
shallow water, have a base cost of 800 PW, and take three
turns to build.  The tiles also can only be built near an
existing water source, so don't plan on having a moat
around your city in the middle of the mountains ;> This
new option does, however, allow cities inland to produce
ocean units, as well as allow the opportunity for an
inland city to use fisheries and nets to increase their
food production.

Quirks to this are very unclean terrain, since a water
tile is plunked down on the map without it being lined by
beaches. "Puddles" may occur, but they are still crossable
by naval units.

2. Unit/Terrain Stealth Factors
-------------------------------

A new attribute has been assigned to both terrain tiles
and combat units: stealth.  Each tile has a stealth
modifier that represents how much coverage the terrain
would give to a unit passing through that terrain. Units
have a stealth modifier that represents how stealthy they
are.

Typically, the more movement points it takes to move
through the terrain, the higher the stealth rating of
the tile.  Military units have a stealth rating based upon
their real life counterparts.  Therefore, vehicles tend to
have a lower stealth rating than units on foot. Stealth
vehicles have a very high stealth rating, but any non-
stealth aircraft have no stealth rating. Typically, units
that have more movement points are typically more stealthy.

Veteran units also have a higher stealth rating, as well
as a better chance of spotting other units. Special units
that are normally invisible (spy, lawyer, etc.) remain that
way and have no stealth rating.

The stealth rating in a situation can be calculated as
follows:

(Unit Stealth) + (Terrain Bonus) + (Veteran Bonus) = Stealth
      ?	       	     0 - 30%             15%		      	

Veterans have a 10% better chance of spotting other units,
due to their experience.

The resulting percentage is the chance that a unit will be
"stealthed" when it moves on its next turn. When stealthed,
it appears to enemy units on the map as if the player's unit
just disappeared. This becomes very handy when making a hasty
retreat.  When dealing with armies (units locked together as
a group), a stealth check is performed on every unit in the
army. Therefore, a bigger group has a larger chance of being
spotted than a lone unit.

Quirks such as "stealth cities" have popped up before, but
have been (hopefully) ironed out. Due to the new data fields
associated with the stealth attributes for each unit and tile
type, saved games made without this patch installed WILL NOT
work with this CivCTP patch.  Also, though it hasn't been
tested, it is STRONGLY suggested that you only play a net game
with another copy of CivCTP using this patch. Otherwise,
mismatched network messages could occur.

Have fun and be sure to save often. Anything could happen with
code that was written in only 48 hours ;>

Andrew Henderson
hendersa@db.erau.edu
